Anthony Lopez & Sameh Mahrous
IS117-006
4-3-19
How the internet works
This guide is intended to give you an idea about how the internet works. The first thing to understand is that, in the past there were numerous types of connections, but now a days, the 2 main ones are FIOS (fiber-optic) and WI-FI. Of course, more primitive ones still exist but the 2 aforementioned ones are more prevalent today. Fiber-optic cables send information using light emitted thru a glass cable which goes far distances. The WI-FI is a wireless method used to connect to portable devices. The WI-FI requires a modem or router which sends network signals which devices could connect to and might be prompted to enter credentials to join.
	Speaking of connections, there are also numerous connection types used for different situations and settings. One of these is the Local Area Network, and the WAN (LAN with a greater range). The internet service provider which people subscribe to and usually pay for, is what supplies the service to the users. The client is what requests the pages from the server and gives us access to certain websites. The anatomy of a web address (URL) is http:// (the transfer protocol which deals with the type of info being sent), the host or site name such as google, and  .com (which is the top-level domain name, and there are many other types of these.).  When speaking of how data is sent on the internet, we describe the messages as ‘packets.’ These packets are sent with information including what is being requested, where it is deriving from, and where it is supposed to go. Each packet has its own path from the sender to the receiver. If there is continuity between the sender and receiver, there is a confirmation, and if the packet is ‘dropped’ the sender is notified and must send it again. 
	Each connection on a device has an IP address. This number helps identify the user of a certain internet connection and is unique for every device. This ‘address’ is quite literally used as just that. When you search something or try to access a website, or anything pertaining to the internet, your IP address is necessary to get the stuff you request to the correct place (back to you). Although they generally stay the same, the address could definitely change by request or by just turning your modem off and on. Using a different network could also cause your IP address to change. These requests your connection makes to these websites are called pings. Your particular client (phone, laptop, desktop) are used to display what you request.
	In general, the internet is not a difficult concept as we know it today. You log on, you click on your browser, you enter a website and click go. But in order to get to this point there were many nuances which went into this process. The nuances are actually still there and just as important, but as technology advances, the less difficult it becomes to access the internet. However, understanding this process and the different components is important on many different levels for many different reasons. Hopefully this guide conveys the process effectively. 
